CHAPTERS 1 AND 2 OF THE GOSPEL OF MARK.
THE GOSPEL OF MARK.
King James Version, Chapter 1.
The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
As it is written in the prophets,
Behold, I send my messenger before thy face,
Which shall prepare thy way before thee,
The voice of one crying in the wilderness,
Prepare ye the way of the Lord,
Make his path straight.
John did baptize in the wilderness,
And preach the baptism of repentance
For the remission of sins.
And there went out unto him all the land of Judea,
And they of Jerusalem,
And were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan,
Confessing their sins.
And John was clothed with camel's hair,
And with a girdle of a skin about his loins,
And he did eat locusts and wild honey,
And preached, saying,
There cometh one mightier than I,
After me, the latchet of whose shoes,
I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
I indeed have baptized you with water,
But he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.
And it came to pass in those days
That Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee,
And was baptized of John in Jordan,
And straightway coming up out of the water,
He saw the heavens opened,
And the Spirit, like a dove, descending upon him.
And there came a voice from heaven, saying,
Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
And immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness.
And he was there in the wilderness,
Forty days, tempted of Satan,
And was with the wild beast,
And the angels ministered unto him.
Now, after that John was put in prison,
Jesus came into Galilee,
Preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God,
And saying,
The time is fulfilled,
And the kingdom of God is at hand.
Repent ye, and believe the gospel.
Now, as he walked by the sea of Galilee,
He saw Simon and Andrew, his brother,
Casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers.
And Jesus said unto them,
Come ye after me,
And I will make you to become fishers of men.
And straightway they forsook their nets and followed him.
And when he had gone a little farther,
Thence he saw James, the son of Zebedee,
And John, his brother, who also were in the ship,
Mending their nets.
And straightway he called them,
And they left their father Zebedee in the ship
With the hired servants and went after him.
And they went into Capernaum.
And straightway on the Sabbath day,
He entered into the synagogue and taught.
And they were astonished at his doctrine,
For he taught them as one that had authority,
And not as the scribes.
And there was in their synagogue a man
With an unclean spirit.
And he cried out, saying,
Let us alone, what if we to do with thee,
Thou Jesus of Nazareth, art thou come to destroy us?
I know thee, who thou art, the holy one of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying,
Hold thy peace, and come out of him.
And they were all amazed,
In so much that they questioned among themselves, saying,
What thing is this, what new doctrine is this?
For with authority commandeth he,
Even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him.
And immediately his fame spread abroad,
Throughout all the region round about Galilee.
And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue,
They entered into the house of Simon and Andrew,
With James and John.
But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever and anon.
They tell him of her, and he came and took her by the hand,
And lifted her up, and immediately the fever left her,
And she ministered unto them.
And even when the sun did set,
They brought unto him all that were diseased,
And them that were possessed with devils,
And all the city was gathered together at the door.
And he healed many that were sick of divers' diseases,
And cast out many devils, and suffered,
Not the devils to speak because they knew him.
And in the morning, rising up a great while before day,
He went out and departed into a solitary place,
And there prayed, And Simon and they that were with him
Followed, and when they had found him,
They said unto him, All men seek for thee.
And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns
That I may preach there also, for therefore came I forth.
And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee,
And cast out devils, and there came a leper to him,
Beseeching him, and kneeling down to him,
And saying unto him, If thou wilt,
Thou canst make me clean.
And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand,
And touched him, and sayeth unto him,
I will be thou clean.
And as soon as he had spoken,
Immediately the leprosy departed from him,
And he was cleansed, and he straightly charged him,
And forthwith sent him away, and sayeth unto him,
See thou say nothing to any man, but go thy way,
Show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing
Those things which Moses commanded
For a testimony unto them.
But he went out and began to publish it much,
And to blaze abroad the matter,
In so much that Jesus could no more
Openly enter into the city,
But was without in desert places,
And they came to him from every quarter.
Chapter two.
And again he entered into Capernaum,
After some days, and it was noised
That he was in the house, and straightway
Many were gathered together, in so much that
There was no room to receive them, no,
Not so much as about the door,
And he preached the word unto them,
And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy,
Which was born of four, and when they could not
Come nigh unto him for the press,
They uncovered the roof where he was,
And when they had broken it up, they let down the bed
Wherein the sick of palsy lay.
When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick
Of the palsy, son, thy sins be forgiven thee.
But there was certain of the scribes sitting there
And reasoning in their hearts,
Why doth this man speak blasphemies?
Who can forgive sins but God only?
And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit
That they so reasoned within themselves,
He said unto them, why reason ye these things
In your hearts?
Whether it is easier to say to the sick of palsy,
Thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, arise,
Take up thy bed and walk, but that ye may know
That the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins,
He sayeth to the sick of the palsy, I say unto thee arise,
And take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.
And immediately he arose, took up the bed,
And went forth before them all,
In so much that they were all amazed and glorified God,
Saying, we never saw it on this fashion.
And he went forth again by the seaside,
And all the multitude resorted unto him,
And he taught them.
And as he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus,
Sitting at the receipt of custom,
And said unto him, follow me.
And he arose and followed him.
And it came to pass that as Jesus said at meet
In his house with publicans and sinners,
Set also together with Jesus and his disciples.
For there were many, and they followed him.
And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat
with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples,
How is it that he eateth and drinketh
with publicans and sinners?
When Jesus heard it, he sayeth unto them,
They that are whole have no need of the physician,
but they that are sick.
I came not to call the righteous,
but sinners to repentance.
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees
used to fast, and they come and say unto him,
Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast?
But thy disciples fast not.
And Jesus said unto them,
Can the children of the bride chamber fast
while the bridegroom is with them?
As long as they have the bridegroom with them,
they cannot fast.
But the days will come when the bridegroom
shall be taken away from them,
and then shall they fast in those days.
No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment,
else the new piece that filled it up
taketh away from the old, and the rent is made worse.
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles,
else the new wine doth burst the bottles,
and the wine is spilled, and the bottles will be marred.
But new wine must be put into new bottles.
And it came to pass that he went through the cornfields
on the Sabbath day.
And his disciples began as they went
to pluck the ears of corn.
And the Pharisees said unto him,
Behold, why do they on the Sabbath day
that which is not lawful?
And he said unto them,
Have ye never read what David did
when he had need and wasn't hungered?
He and they that were with him,
how he went into the house of God
in the days of Abathar, the high priest,
and did eat the shewbread,
which is not lawful to eat, but for the priest,
and gave also to them which were with him?
And he said unto them,
The Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath.
Therefore, the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath.
End of chapters one and two of the Gospel of Mark.
Reading by Simon Wainwright.
Thank you.